Pre-game: World Building

- Shuffle the land and temple decks; place facedown.
- Draw 20 lands facedown and place them in a 4x5 grid
- Turn lands face up
- Roll a die to determine who goes first
- After all 20 lands are placed, alternate placing the 5 water cards; water
  cards must be placed adjacent to either an edge, or to another water card.
  Water cards replace the existing land cards, which are removed from play.
- After land and water cards are placed, alternate placing 4 Temple cards.
  Temple cards can replace any land card, but not water cards.


Game:

Combat:
Each unit has four scores, expressed as A/B/C/D.  These are:
    A: Attack die
    B: Counterattack/defense die
    C: Hit Points
    D: Action
Combat for units is always handled one-on-one.  If multiple units are attacking
a single unit, resolve the attacks one by one, in the order the attacker
prefers. A unit may attack only adjacent units.

To resolve combat, each player rolls a die specified by the card. The attacking
player rolls his "A" die, the defending player his "B" die.  Whichever player
rolls the higher score wins, and the difference between the winning and losing
rolls is subtracted from the losing unit's HP (C).  If the losing unit's HP fall
below 1, the unit is destroyed and leaves play.

Some units are designated as "ranged attacks" with a range.  These units may
attack units which are not adjacent to them, up to the range listed. They may
attack any unit located on a card to which the unit could reach if the range
was action points.  e.g. if the range is 2, the unit can attack any unit
2 cards away in a line, or one card up and one card over. Ranged attacks are
resolved normally, except that if there was any damage resulting from a
counterattack (i.e. if the defending unit wins) the attacker takes no damage
unless it was physically adjacent to the defender.


Actions:
Units can move in the cardinal directions (up, down, left, right.) They can
move a number of squares equal to their movement score (D). An attack counts
as an action.  For example, a unit with an Action score of 4 could move 3
squares and attack once, move twice and attack twice, attack 4 times and not
move, etc.  Movements and attacks can come in any order.  (e.g. A unit with a
score of 4 can move once, attack once, and then move twice more, or can
move once, attack once, move once, and attack again.)

Units may not move onto or across water cards. Units may also not attack across
water cards, unless they have ranged attacks.


Mustering Units:
A player may muster only one unit per turn. To muster a unit, the sum of the
levels of all extant units (owned by any player) must be at least equal to one
less than the new unit's level.  For example, if a new unit is level 8, the
combined levels of all other units must be at least 7. If there are no units
in play, the sum of all levels is obviously 0, and only level 1 units may be
mustered.

Units that have been mustered may not perform any actions for that turn, while
they organize. Units may be mustered onto any land card controlled by the
player. Mustering a unit onto a given land card does NOT bestow control of
that land to the player. (If the unit remains on that card for the player's
next turn, however, then control is switched as normal.)


Controlling Lands:
All lands start out neutral, turned sideways. As a player's unit ends the turn
on a land, that land is turned toward that player (even if it is already turned
toward another player) and the land is now controlled by the new player.
Any lands that have effects are now determined respective to the controlling
player.


Winning the Game:
Temples are treated as lands, except that they have special meaning. The goal
of the game is to control all four Temples simultaneously. This allows you to
summon the Gods and demand their blessing to make you ruler of the Isle.
Or something.

Each Temple has effects, much like lands, only typically more powerful. Some
of them are negative to the holding player, though, so be careful of the order
you conquer Temples in.

Temples can change ownership just as lands do.


Enchantments and Effects:
Some cards are Enchantments that can be cast on lands or units, or that take
effect globally.  Each such Enchantment will have a level; the Enchantment
may only be cast if the number of all units controlled by the player is equal
to or greater than the level of the Enchantment.  This is because Enchantments
draw power from the lifeforce of your units... or, uh, something.

Some Enchantments are designated "Fast", meaning that they can interrupt
(intercept) other Enchantments (or Fast Enchantments.)


Turn Mechanics:
Players alternate turns. The turn phases are:
1. Draw a card
2. Play any Enchantments from hand (that you are able to)
3. Muster any units from hand (that you are able to)
4. Perform unit actions (move + attack)
5. Discard down to 5 cards (if necessary)

Phases 2 and 3 can be interleaved, but once Phase 4 begins no units may be
mustered or or Enchantments cast.  Fast Enchantments may be cast at any time,
even on other players' turns.


Water Units:
Some units are designated water units. These units may walk on, over, or
stop on water cards. Some water units also gain benefits when they are standing
on a water card. Water units essentially can treat water cards as land cards.

Non-water units may not attack water units that are currently standing on
water cards, but water units on water cards may attack non-water units on
adjacent land cards.  As with ranged attacks, if a non-water unit defending
against a water unit standing on a water card wins the attack, the water unit
takes no damage. (If the non-water unit has ranged attacks, then combat is 
resolved normally.) Any conflict between water units is resolved normally.


Game Variants:
Pick your units before hand, with a pre-agreed HP (level?) limit.  Field them
as you see fit before play starts, remove all units from the draw deck, and
play as normal.

Use "house rules" for World Building stage; e.g. explicitly place lands, waters
and Temples just because you want to play a given configuration.

Standard Definitions:
Entering a Land: Moving onto a land (via any method -- e.g. explicitly moving
there, or being teleported there somehow) and stopping there for any reason,
even if the unit later leaves the land again the same turn. After entering a
land, units are said to be "residing" on the land.

Leaving a Land: Moving off the land on which a unit is residing (whether
manually/physically or via a card effect.)

Traversing a Land: Moving into and *immediately* out of a land; this
essentially means crossing a land via the use of a unit's action point. The
unit is *not* considered to have Entered or Left the land; merely Traversed
it. (Thus, any effects a land has that trigger on Entering or Leaving are
not triggered by Traversing.)

Gaining Control of a land: At the end of a given player's turn, all lands
on which that player has units residing become controlled by the player
(unless stated otherwise by a card.)

Leaving Play: Mantras and Units can be persistent (whereas Fast Mantras
cannot.)  When a Mantra expires or is cancelled, it is said to Leave Play.
A unit that is killed in combat, killed by a Mantra, returned to a player's
hand, etc. is said to have Left Play.
